
Ophyd Class
===========

To start, we want to derive our Linkam class from Ophyd's PVPositioner
class.  This will allow us to treat the Linkam stage like any other
positioner.  Specifically, this will allow us to *move* to a new
temperature in the same way that we move a translation stage.  At the
bsui terminal, this means we will get a progress bar and a time
estimate for completion of the move.  Most importantly, the move will
block plan execution until the change of temperature is completed.

Class definition
----------------

Here's the boilerplate for the top of the class definition.

.. code-block:: python
   :linenos:

     from ophyd import Component as Cpt, EpicsSignal, EpicsSignalRO
     from ophyd import PVPositioner
     
     class Linkam(PVPositioner):
        '''An ophyd wrapper around the Linkam T96 controller
        '''

This is then followed by the list of components.


Following `the example from the Ophyd documentation
<https://blueskyproject.io/ophyd/positioners.html#pvpositioner>`__, we
need to add a ``readback`` and a ``setpoint`` attribute so the
positioner can know where it is and where it's going.

.. code-block:: python
   :linenos:

     from ophyd import Component as Cpt, EpicsSignal, EpicsSignalRO
     from ophyd import PVPositioner
     
     class Linkam(PVPositioner):
        '''An ophyd wrapper around the Linkam T96 controller
        '''

        readback = Cpt(EpicsSignalRO, 'TEMP')
        setpoint = Cpt(EpicsSignal, 'SETPOINT:SET')
        status_code = Cpt(EpicsSignal, 'STATUS')


Status code
-----------

The tricky part is specifying the ``done`` signal.  There is not a PV
which specifically and only reports when the temperature is at the set
point.  Instead, it is buried in ``status_code`` (which I have renamed
from the last section, for reasons which will become apparent shorty).

Doing this:

.. code-block:: python

   linkam.status_code.get()

returns a float like ``4.0`` or ``6.0``.  Kind of confusing...

The way to deal with this number is to first convert it to an integer,
then interpret it in a bit-wise context.

=====  ============================
 bit    meaning
=====  ============================
 1      an error has occurred
 2      at set point
 4      heater is on
 8      LN2 pump is on
 16     LN2 pump is in auto mode
=====  ============================

Suppose this is a pythonically True statement:

.. code-block:: python

   int(linkam.status_code.get()) & 2 == 2

This means that the temperature is at its set point.  So, if
``linkam.status_code`` is 6.0, then the 2-bit is set and the
temperature is at its set point.  As the temperature is ramping up,
``linkam.status_code`` would be 4.0.  The 2-bit is unset, indicating
that the temperature is not at the set point.

Done signal
-----------

Here is how we encode this in Ophyd.  We need to create a
DerivedSignal which is used to extract the 2 bit from the
``status_code`` attribute.

.. code-block:: python
   :linenos:

     from ophyd import Component as Cpt, EpicsSignal, EpicsSignalRO
     from ophyd import PVPositioner

     from ophyd.signal import DerivedSignal

     class AtSetpoint(DerivedSignal):
         '''A signal that does bit-wise arithmetic on the Linkam's status code'''
         def __init__(self, parent_attr, *, parent=None, **kwargs):
            code_signal = getattr(parent, parent_attr)
            super().__init__(derived_from=code_signal, parent=parent, **kwargs)

        def inverse(self, value):
            if int(value) & 2 == 2:
                return 1
            else:
                return 0

        def forward(self, value):
            return value


     class Linkam(PVPositioner):
        '''An ophyd wrapper around the Linkam T96 controller
        '''

        readback = Cpt(EpicsSignalRO, 'TEMP')
        setpoint = Cpt(EpicsSignal, 'SETPOINT:SET')
        status_code = Cpt(EpicsSignal, 'STATUS')
	done = Cpt(AtSetpoint, parent_attr = 'status_code')

In short, ``linkam.done`` will return 0 when the temperature is not at
the set point and 1 when it has reached the set point.  This class now
meets enough of the semantic needs of the PVPositioner class that it
can be used in a bluesky plan.

Linkam as a positioner
----------------------

With this, it is now possible to do 

.. code-block:: python

   RE(mv(linkam, 75))

and see something like this at the bsui terminal:

.. _fig-linkam-progressbar:
.. figure:: ../_static/progressbar.png
   :target: ../_static/progressbar.png
   :align: center

   A bluesky progress bar as the Linkam stage heats up.


To use this:

.. code-block:: python

   linkam = Linkam('XF:06BM-ES:{LINKAM}:', name='linkam', egu='Â°C', settle_time=10, limits=(-169.0,500.0))

The ``egu`` string (i.e., engineering units) is used in the progress
bar that is displayed during a move.

The ``settle_time`` is configurable at the bsui command line or in a
measurement plan:

.. code-block:: python

   linkam.settle_time = 120

This sets an amount of time to pause upon seeing the temperature reach
the set point to allow the sample to equilibrate at the new
temperature.  The ``mv()`` command will not return until after the
settling time has elapsed.  The units are seconds.

The ``limits`` define the bounds of temperature, like soft limits for
a motor.  The units are degrees C.


